**********************************************************
Make open data sharing a no-brainer for ethics committees.
**********************************************************

Statement of the problem
========================

The ideology of open and reproducible science make their ways into
various fields of science.  In many disciplines scientific research is
heavily data driven and thus requires unrestricted exchange/sharing of
data to attain the load goals of the open science.  In neuroimaging,
as in other fields of human-subjects research such as bio-informatics,
making imaging data publicly available requires staying within
established legal norms, i.e. addressing the aspect of subjects
privacy.  Those norms are usually established by institutional review
boards (IRB, or otherwise called ethics committees), which are in turn
"governed" by the federal regulations, such as
`45 Code of Federal Regulations Part 46
<http://www.hhs.gov/ohrp/humansubjects/guidance/45cfr46.html>`
in US.

Flexibility in interpretation of original regulations established in
the past century, decentralization of those committees, and lack of a
"community" influence over them created the problem: *for neuroimaging
studies there is no commonly accepted version of a Consent form
template which would allow for collected imaging data to be shared as
openly as possible while providing adequate guarantees for subjects'
privacy*.  In majority of the cases, used Consent forms simply do not
include **any** provision for public sharing of the data to get a
"speedy" IRB approval for a study.

Situation is particularly *tricky* because major granting agencies
(e.g. NIH, NSF) demand data sharing, but do not explicitly 

Overall approach
================

Initially we would like to concentrate on the problem as pertinent to
neuroimaging (and associated behavioral) data. But if reaches enough
traction -- it would be great to cover any kind of scientific data
which has similar concerns.

Goal minimum
------------

To address this problem we decided to collect consent forms which have
been previously approved by ethic committees in different
institutions.  Such samples could serve a basis for introducing
similar *ad-hoc* consent forms at other institutions so they fulfill
the desires of any particular committee, while allowing public sharing
of collected data.

Ultimate goal
-------------

Analysis of those might allow us to distill an *ultimate* form (or a
set of those for different use-cases and jurisdictions, and/or
guidelines) which would be compliant with all regulatory statues,
while allowing for open sharing and access to the neuroimaging data.

If regulated by the federal/state law, there is really no objective
reason why there could be no consensus among IRB committees within the
same jurisdictions. Although somewhat a utopian statement, we hope
that with examples/precedent cases and possibly **your** enthusiastic
involvement we cold achieve our goal.

Side goals
----------

Data must be de-identified before distribution.  We will collect
information on existing and possibly establishing new pipelines to
standardize annonimization of neuroimaging data to simplify sharing.


Useful links
============

- http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Institutional_review_board
- http://www.nsf.gov/bfa/dias/policy/hsfaqs.jsp

.. link list

`Bug tracker <https://github.com/neurodebian/open-brain-consent/issues>`_ |
`Build status <http://travis-ci.org/neurodebian/open-brain-consent>`_ |
`Documentation <https://open-brain-consent.readthedocs.org>`_
